---
layout: default
name: Shadow Mewtwo
title: smewtwo
image:
---
Shadow Mewtwo bursts into Beyond Melee with a diverse and unique moveset. He has similarities to Mewtwo in appearance, but in gameplay he couldn’t be more different. Shadow Mewtwo’s signature mechanic is his ability to Mega Evolve! That’s right, Mega Evolution is making its first appearance in competitive Smash! You can mega evolve with down b, once you’ve dealt 60% to your opponent with A button attacks. Watch your meter rise with damage, and plan your match around your next Mega Evolution. Mega Shadow Mewtwo deals more damage and knockback on all of his moves than his normal form, and he moves faster as well. You remain in your mega form unless you whiff attacks, get hit, or your opponent dies. You can refill meter while mega evolved by landing more attacks, though, so if you want to keep the momentum in your favor, make smart plays.
Mega evolution is great, but that’s not the only surprise up his sleeve. Shadow Mewtwo, ironically, has no Shadow Ball. Instead, press neutral special to activate Light Pillar. As you hold B, an indicator travels along the stage. Let go of the button to activate the beam! It’s solid for both shield pressure and combos, however it’s quite slow to start up, and slow to cool down. It’s a commitment, but you can use this move to extend tech chases, combos, or to punish campy opponents!
Next, he has a completely reworked up b. It’s based on some of his moves from Pokken. He has less positional mixups than Mewtwo does with his teleport, but don’t let that fool you into thinking he can’t recover. You have restricted angles to start with, but you can curve through the air with the control stick.
For his normals, a stylish new back air with startling range allows Shadow Mewtwo to set up edgeguards, or finish them. He gets a new down tilt that’s slower to start and finish than Mewtwo’s, but it’s great at setting up into his scary aerial finishers… even scarier when he’s mega evolved. Based on his sword moves from Pokken, Shadow Mewtwo gets an ice cold up tilt to juggle opponents or send them to the stars. A new upsmash more in line with his other two smash attacks, a fiery forward air that launches forward, a startlingly strong forward throw- and so many more unique aspects that set this character apart from Mewtwo. With all of these new moves, and mega evolution as the cherry on top, Shadow Mewtwo brings a lot of new concepts to the Melee landscape, which makes him a must-play in the BM roster.
